# CEDAR Intake API Client

This folder contains code for submitting data to the CEDAR Intake API for eventual storage in Alfabet. 
The Intake API is designed to take a JSON string in its `Body` field, as well as a schema identifier in its `Schema` field.

## Swagger

The Swagger file for the Intake API is saved as `cedar_intake.json` in this folder. The Swagger we get from CEDAR needs preprocessing to add the `"x-nullable": true` property to the definition of the `clientLastUpdatedDate` field on the `IntakeInput` object. This is an optional field, but without the `"x-nullable": true` property, go-swagger will generate the corresponding Go code with a `strfmt.DateTime` field. If this type is used and `.ClientLastUpdatedDate` is not set in our Go code, the zero value of `0001-01-01T00:00:00.000Z` will get sent to CEDAR Intake, which causes an error. With `"x-nullable": true` set, go-swagger generates Go code with a `*strfmt.DateTime` pointer field, and a `nil` pointer will prevent this field from being sent to CEDAR.

To run the preprocessing and regenerate code from an updated Swagger file, run `scripts/generate_cedar_clients`. This uses [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to add the `"x-nullable": true` field, then calls go-swagger to regenerate code.

See [our general CEDAR documentation](/docs/cedar.md) for info on accessing CEDAR and installing `go-swagger` for code generation.

## Schemas

The CEDAR team needs a schema of the data we send them in order to decode it for storage in Alfabet. We have a script in [`cmd/gen_intake_schema/main.go`](/cmd/gen_intake_schema/main.go), which uses the [jsonschema package](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/alecthomas/jsonschema) to generate [JSON schema](https://json-schema.org/) documents describing the possible payloads. This script gets called as a pre-commit hook if any relevant file is changed, in order to make sure the schemas are up-to-date.

## Package Structure

- `pkg/cedar/intake/gen/`: This is auto-generated code from the Intake API's Swagger file. Of note is the [`IntakeInput`](gen/models/intake_input.go) type, which will be used by the API client to submit data.
- `pkg/cedar/intake/models/`: These struct definitions are the source of truth for generating the schema documents.
- `pkg/cedar/intake/schemas/`: These are the generated JSON schema documents used by the CEDAR team for validating the data we send.
- `pkg/cedar/intake/translation/`: Each file in this package corresponds to a file in `pkg/cedar/intake/models`, and contains code for the following:
    1. Translating a domain model (defined under `pkg/models`) into the type defined in `pkg/cedar/intake/models`.
    1. Marshaling that struct into a JSON string, then embedding it in an `IntakeInput` struct, tagged with the appropriate schema version.
- [`pkg/cedar/intake/client.go`](client.go): A wrapper around the autogenerated client code from the Intake API Swagger, which has public methods for publishing different types of objects to the Intake API.

## Manual Testing

[`cmd/test_cedar_intake/main.go`](/cmd/test_cedar_intake/main.go) is a script that creates test data (based on the seed data used in `cmd/devdata/*.go`), which can be used either for examining our translation of data locally or for testing pushing data over to CEDAR Intake, depending on whether the `dump` or `submit` subcommand is used.

- `go run cmd/test_cedar_intake/main.go dump` will create JSON files for test Business Case, GRT feedback, and system intake data inside the `cmd/test_cedar_intake/` directory. These are examples of the payloads that will be marshaled and sent to CEDAR.
- `go run cmd/test_cedar_intake/main.go submit` will call our Intake client to send data to CEDAR. It requires that `CEDAR_INTAKE_ENABLED`, `CEDAR_API_URL`, and `CEDAR_API_KEY` environment variables to be set; these should be set in your .envrc.local, pointing to the CEDAR impl environment.

## Checking whether CEDAR Intake received payload

The CEDAR Intake API has two endpoints that can be used together to verify that it received a payload we submitted, and what the payload was.

1. Use Postman to call `GET /intake/status/client/{id}?clientStatus=Initiated&version=1`, where `id` is the `ClientID` of the entity submitted (usually the ID of the top-level entity). If CEDAR received the payload, it will return an HTTP 200, and the body will contain a `cedarId` field. If it did not receive it, it will return an HTTP 400 with the error message "Intake could not be found with those parameters".
1. Use Postman to call `GET /intake/cedar/{id}`, where `id` is the value of the `cedarId` field from the previous response. The response should contain a `body` field containing the payload that was sent to CEDAR Intake.

## Publishing data to cedar on a CRON job

The client has a `PublishOnSchedule` function which sends data to CEDAR. It relies on the environment variable `CEDAR_INTAKE_PUBLISHER_ENABLED` to conditionally to publish data to CEDAR on a schedule. `True` will publish it. Currently the timing is hard coded to be Fridays at noon.
 
