# EASi React Frontend

## Folder Layout

The frontend code is organized into several major subfolders:

- `assets` contains non-image static files used in the site, such as downloadable planning templates.
- `components` contains individual components, each potentially reusable, that don't constitute a full page/screen. Each component will have a folder with the component name, with the component code in `index.tsx`. Each component folder may also contain:
  - `index.scss` - SASS styling for the component.
  - `index.test.tsx` - unit tests for the component.
  - `index.stories.tsx` - setup to make the component available in Storybook.
- `constants` contains various constant values used throughout the application.
- `data` (TODO not sure how to describe this folder)
- `hooks` contains custom hooks used for common tasks throughout the application.
- `i18n` contains text used throughout the application that may need to be translatable for internationalization.
- `images` contains static image files used in the site.
- `queries` contains GraphQL queries used to interface with the backend API.
  - `queries/types` contains TypeScript type definitions that are autogenerated by Apollo Client's codegen from the backend GraphQL schema for use when writing queries; **do not directly modify these**.
- `reducers` contains Redux reducer functions for managing frontend application state.
- `sagas` contains Redux sagas for integrating asynchronous actions into the Redux lifecycle.
- `stylesheets` contains SASS stylesheets that are used throughout the application.
- `types` contains TypeScript types for application-wide usage.
- `utils` contains utility functions used repeatedly in the application.
- `validations` contains [`Yup`](https://github.com/jquense/yup) validation functions, used by [`Formik`](https://formik.org/) forms throughout the application.
- `views` contains the application's pages/screens.